# lcd-nextstop

Software for a special type of LCD displays typically used in public
transportation. These LCD matrices consist of a mosaic segment matrix.

# Hardware

The Hardware used for now is an ESP8266, which handles all the WIFI stuff and
does generate the content which will be displayed on screen. This is temporarily
connected to an AVR microcontroller, which does the translation from serial data
to the LCD matrix, which can be controlled per-pixel by the microcontroller.
Until now, for simplicity we use an Arduino for that, which will definitely not
be the final state of this project.

The general idea is, that in long term, the AVR may be ommited, such that the
ESP8266 handles both network data and also the hardware communication. Usual
ESP8266-Boards (ESP-12E) do have actually enough I/O-pins available, such that
this should generally be no problem. One single problem is to find out, whether
the LCD screens do work with a 3.3 volts power supply or signal level. If not,
level shifters may be added to the hardware.

## Connection to the displays

The communication to the display modules is done via synchronous serial signals.
For that, each module is controlled by its pins `STB` (Strobe), `DI` (Data
input) and `CL` (Clock). As we want to keep the number of used pins as low as
possible, we use only one `DI`, `CL` pair connected to all modules and control
which module is currently active using the specific `STB` pin.

Furthermore, the modules apparently need 5 volts power supply for the LCD
drivers and also the logic which decodes the serial signal.
Last but not least, the operating frequency of 256Hz (or maybe 512Hz for newer
modules) for the display (supposedly with which the LCD refresh is triggered)
must also be provided at the pin `FR`. Otherwise the display could take damage,
eventhough we did not really try that out for a longer period of time, as a
output compare pin of the AVR in cooperation with an accordingly configured
timer is used all the time.

# Repository

This repository consists of different sub-directories, which are all important
for themselves.
* avr: the AVR C source code, which is needed until now for the direct
communication with the LCD matrix
* nodemcu: the NodeMCU LUA code, which is used for the content which will be
displayed on the screen
* tools: useful tools for e.g. generating a C font file out of an svg

# Software

For now, the code of the AVR is written in C and the code for the ESP8266 is
written in LUA. In future, this could change, such that some hardware
functionalities for the ESP8266 (in case the AVR would be ommited) may be added
in C which could either result in a forked NodeMCU firmware, or in a firmware
for the ESP8266 from scratch.

The Software is for now able to display some information like static text and
the current time, which is fetched from a web server first.
